> # Determining appropriate data handling process

### Scenario

I work for an educational technology company that developed an application to help teachers automatically grade assignments. The application handles a wide range of data that it collects from academic institutions, instructors, parents, and students.

My team was alerted to a data leak of internal business plans on social media. An investigation by the team discovered that an employee accidentally shared those confidential documents with an external business partner. An audit into the leak is underway to determine how similar incidents can be avoided.

A supervisor provided me with information regarding the leak. It appears that the principle of least privilege was not observed by employees at the company during a sales meeting. I have been asked to analyze the situation and find ways to prevent it from happening again.

First, I'll need to evaluate details about the incident. Then, I'll review the controls in place to prevent data leaks. Next, I'll identify ways to improve information privacy at the company. Finally, I'll justify why I think my recommendations will make data handling at the company more secure.

> # Date Leak Worksheet

**Incident summary:** A sales manager shared access to a folder of internal-only documents with their team during a meeting. The folder contained files associated with a new product that has not been publicly announced. It also included customer analytics and promotional materials. After the meeting, the manager did not revoke access to the internal folder, but warned the team to wait for approval before sharing the promotional materials with others.

During a video call with a business partner, a member of the sales team forgot the warning from their manager. The sales representative intended to share a link to the promotional materials so that the business partner could circulate the materials to their customers. However, the sales representative accidentally shared a link to the internal folder instead. Later, the business partner posted the link on their company's social media page assuming that it was the promotional materials.

| Control | Least Privelege |
| ---- | ---- |
| **Issue(s)** | The sales manager did not revoke access for the internal-only folder, which contains files related to a new product that is not yet publicly announced. One of the sales team members also didn’t care about the folder access when sharing promotion material with a business partner, who would circulate the materials to their customers, and shared the entire folder.|
| **Review** | NIST SP 800-53: AC-6 addresses effective security control for every business that every access should have the minimal privilege for every user who shall need limited accountability, which aligns his/her role to accomplish business operations. |
| **Recommendation(s)** | Limiting access and granting necessary privileges to every user based on their role, auditing user access regularly, and revoking access for a limited period of time can improve the security posture of the company and help avoid similar incidents in the future. |
| **Justification** | Data leaks can be avoided by granting access to limited people and restricting it for everyone else. All information would be less exposed to the wrong user by regular access audit. Revoking access after a certain period from a privileged user can prevent the data from being exposed by accident. |