> # Improving CIA triad for a small business

### Scenario

I am the first cybersecurity professional hired by a growing business.

Recently, a deposit was made from the business to an unknown bank account. The finance manager says they didn’t make a mistake. Fortunately, they were able to stop the payment. The owner has asked me to investigate what happened to prevent any future incidents.

To do this, I’ll need to do some accounting on the incident to better understand what happened. First, I will review the access log of the incident. Next, I will take notes that can help me identify a possible threat actor. Then, I will spot issues with the access controls that were exploited by the user. Finally, I will recommend mitigations that can improve the business' access controls and reduce the likelihood that this incident reoccurs.

This is the [spreadsheet file](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1g1ViMiR4BiRvuRLi8GBVoOMgtvb_8y1MsO3fso1TfiI/edit?gid=0#gid=0) with access log and empolyee directory.

### Authentication/Authorization

**Note(s)**  
Based on analyzing the event, I found that legal attorney, contract employer, Mr. Robert Taylor Jr. caused the event. He used the device Up2-noGud, username - Legal/administrator with his admin authorization level to access the system and transfer money.

**Issue(s)**
Based on the employee datasheet, he was no longer employee of the company since 2019 but still have ‘Admin’ rights to access the system.

**Recommendation(s)**
In order to prevent this kind of event in the future, we must use the principle of least privilege, that allows users to access which they need to perform business operations and always revoke the access whenever the employee leave the company.