### Scenario

I am a newly hired cybersecurity analyst for an e-commerce company. The company stores information on a remote database server, since many of the employees work remotely from locations all around the world. Employees of the company regularly query, or request, data from the server to find potential customers. The database has been open to the public since the company's launch three years ago. As a cybersecurity professional, I recognize that keeping the database server open to the public is a serious vulnerability.

I am tasked with completing a vulnerability assessment of the situation to communicate the potential risks to decision makers at the company. I will create a written report that explains how the vulnerable server is a risk to business operations and how it can be secured.

> # Vunerability Assessment Report  
## 1st January 2025

### System Description

The server hardware consists of a powerful CPU processor and 128GB of memory. It runs on the latest version of Linux operating system and hosts a MySQL database management system. It is configured with a stable network connection using IPv4 addresses and interacts with other servers on the network. Security measures include SSL/TLS encrypted connections.

### Scope

The scope of this vulnerability assessment relates to the current access controls of the system. The assessment will cover a period of three months, from June 2025 to August 2025. NIST SP 800-30 Rev. 1 is used to guide the risk analysis of the information system.

### Purpose

The database serves as a medium for the business to connect with the information they are working with. Employees around the world accomplish their tasks using this database server. However, the database server should not be open to the public and should be kept private with role-based access for everyone. If a security incident happens involving the attack of the database server and disabled by the attacker, all the operations might shutdown related to this database server. Thereafter, it is crucial to prevent these attacks and secure the information on the database server.

### Risk Assessment

| Threat Source | Threat Event | Likelihood | Severity | Risk |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Business Partner | Perform reconnaissance and surveillance of organization. | 1 | 3| 3|
| Advanced persistent threat (APT) | Obfuscate future attacks. | 3 | 3 | 9 |
| Employee | Alter/Delete critical information | 2 | 3 | 6 |

### Approach

Risks are considered in the data storage and management methods of the business. The likelihood of a threat occurrence and the impact of these potential events were measured against the risks to day-to-day operational needs.

### Remediation Strategy

Implementation of authentication, authorization, and auditing mechanisms to ensure that only authorized users access the database server. This includes using strong passwords, role-based access controls, and multi-factor authentication to limit user privileges. Encryption of data in motion using TLS instead of SSL. IP allow-listing to corporate offices to prevent random users from the internet from connecting to the database.
