> # Cybersecurity Incident Report: Analyzing network attack

### Scenario

I work as a security analyst for a travel agency that advertises sales and promotions on the company’s website. The employees of the company regularly access the company’s sales webpage to search for vacation packages their customers might like. 

One afternoon, I receive an automated alert from my monitoring system indicating a problem with the web server. I attempt to visit the company’s website, but I receive a connection timeout error message in my browser.

I use a packet sniffer to capture data packets in transit to and from the web server. I notice a large number of TCP SYN requests coming from an unfamiliar IP address. The web server appears to be overwhelmed by the volume of incoming traffic and is losing its ability to respond to the abnormally large number of SYN requests. I suspect the server is under attack by a malicious actor. 

I take the server offline temporarily so that the machine can recover and return to a normal operating status. I also configure the company’s firewall to block the IP address that was sending the abnormal number of SYN requests. I know that my IP blocking solution won’t last long, as an attacker can spoof other IP addresses to get around this block. I need to alert my manager about this problem quickly and discuss the next steps to stop this attacker and prevent this problem from happening again. I will need to be prepared to tell my boss about the type of attack you discovered and how it was affecting the web server and employees.

**See the "Logs summary" [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1enpRzrIao3J2Lp2tOI0hmu1Cu7D7CjLGhFAiTiR9J64/edit?gid=218501934#gid=218501934)**.

> ### Part 1: Identifying the type of attack that may have caused this network interruption

One potential explanation for the website's connection timeout error message is that the web server is overloaded and has failed to respond due to a SYN flood attack. The logs indicate that IP address of one of the outsiders is sending SYN requests repeatedly and did not complete the handshake. This event could be Denial of Service (DoS, Syn Flood attack). 

> ### Part 2: Explaining how the attack is causing the website to malfunction

When website visitors try to establish a connection with the web server, a three-way handshake occurs using the TCP protocol. These are the steps that occur:

1. Client machine sends TCP Synchronize(SYN) packet to the server.

2. Server receives the packet and replies with SYN, Acknowledgement(ACK).

3. The client knows the SYN-ACK and sends back an ACK to establish a connection successfully.

When the malicious actor sends a large number of SYN packets to the server all at once, the server reserves port connections for each one of those for a limited amount of time, which also blocks all the valid connection requests. After all the available resources and ports have been opened, the server failed to function properly, which leads to downtime. The time other employees try to use the website, they can’t access the website due to this attack. Examination of the logs generated from the packet sniffer indicates that an outsider IP address is constantly sending SYN requests and the server fails to process new connection requests. Consequently, when an employee accesses this website, he/she gets the timeout error on browser. 
